README.markdown, before:

# LoadFileToRepl Sublime Text 2/3 plugin

## Description

This is a companion plugin to [SublimeREPL](http://github.com/wuub/SublimeREPL) providing a command to load current source file into according REPL. It just uses a REPL command, like `:load "foo.hs"` for Haskell, or `(load-file "foo.clj")` for Clojure and etc.

At the moment it supports load command for REPLs of the following languages:

- Clojure
- Common Lisp
- Groovy
- Haskell (GHCi)
- Idris
- JavaScript (Node)
- Lua
- Matlab
- PowerShell
- Prolog (SICStus)
- Python
- R
- Ruby
- Scala
- Scheme (MIT)
- Standard ML
- ... it's easy to extend this list. Welcome to suggest yours!


## Content

### Command `SublimeREPL: Load current file`

1. reveals REPL view or opens a new one according to the type of current file;
1. optionally places REPL in another layout group (to see results simultaneously with code);
1. optionally clears REPL before loading file;
1. saves current file;
1. and finally loads it into REPL, using according command;
1. optionally moves cursor to the REPL.

You can call it using 

* Command Palette: `⌘⇧P  ➤  SublimeREPL: Load current file  ↩`;
* Menu: `Tools  ➤  SublimeREPL  ➤  Load current file`;
* Hotkeys: see below.


### Settings:

Command `load_file_to_repl` has several options:

* `clear` — if `true`, clears REPL before loading file (`false` by default);
* `save_focus` — if `true`, saves focus on the source file, else moves cursor to REPL (`true` by default).
* `split` —  if it has `"horizontally"` or `"vertically"` (default) value, it determines how window is splitted to show REPL in a new layout group. If it doesn't have one of these two values, or if window was already splitted, this option doesn't take effect — REPL is placed in a new tab or in the next layout group.

   > **Note**: if you want another splitting behavior or more flexibility, take a look at the [Origamy plugin](https://github.com/SublimeText/Origami/).

You can find these options and their default values in the menu:

	Sublime Text  ➤  Preferences  ➤  Package Settings  ➤  LoadFileToRepl  ➤  Open Settings

or in Command Palette:

	Preferences: LoadFileToRepl Settings



### Key Bindings:

There are two hotkeys predefined:

* `⌘↩` — runs `load_file_to_repl` command with default options:

```json
	{ "keys": ["super+enter"], 		 "command": "load_file_to_repl"},
```

* `⌘⇧↩` — same, but clears REPL before loading file and moves cursor to REPL:

```json
	{ "keys": ["super+shift+enter"], "command": "load_file_to_repl", 
	  "args": {
	  	"clear": true,
	  	"save_focus": false
	  }
	}
```

(On Windows and Linux there is `ctrl` instead of `⌘`)

You can find these bindings at

	Sublime Text  ➤  Preferences  ➤  Package Settings  ➤  LoadFileToRepl  ➤  Default Key Bindings

> **Note**: if you don't like them and want to turn off or make your own just set the `use_load_file_to_repl_keybindings` setting to false and reload Sublime.


## Installation

Using [Sublime Package Control](http://wbond.net/sublime_packages/package_control):

> **Note**: you should install first [SublimeREPL](http://github.com/wuub/SublimeREPL) plugin.

	⌘⇧P  ➤  Package Control: Install package  ➤  LoadFileToRepl

Now restart Sublime Text to load the plugin settings. That's it!

Commit message:

Added elixir/erlang (iex) support

README.markdown, after:

# LoadFileToRepl Sublime Text 2/3 plugin

## Description

This is a companion plugin to [SublimeREPL](http://github.com/wuub/SublimeREPL) providing a command to load current source file into according REPL. It just uses a REPL command, like `:load "foo.hs"` for Haskell, or `(load-file "foo.clj")` for Clojure and etc.

At the moment it supports load command for REPLs of the following languages (in alphabetic order):

- Clojure
- Common Lisp
- Elixir/Erlang (iex)
- Groovy
- Haskell (GHCi)
- Idris
- JavaScript (Node)
- Lua
- Matlab
- PowerShell
- Prolog (SICStus)
- Python
- R
- Ruby
- Scala
- Scheme (MIT)
- Standard ML
- ... it's easy to extend this list. Welcome to suggest yours!


## Content

### Command `SublimeREPL: Load current file`

1. reveals REPL view or opens a new one according to the type of current file;
1. optionally places REPL in another layout group (to see results simultaneously with code);
1. optionally clears REPL before loading file;
1. saves current file;
1. and finally loads it into REPL, using according command;
1. optionally moves cursor to the REPL.

You can call it using 

* Command Palette: `⌘⇧P  ➤  SublimeREPL: Load current file  ↩`;
* Menu: `Tools  ➤  SublimeREPL  ➤  Load current file`;
* Hotkeys: see below.


### Settings:

Command `load_file_to_repl` has several options:

* `clear` — if `true`, clears REPL before loading file (`false` by default);
* `save_focus` — if `true`, saves focus on the source file, else moves cursor to REPL (`true` by default).
* `split` —  if it has `"horizontally"` or `"vertically"` (default) value, it determines how window is splitted to show REPL in a new layout group. If it doesn't have one of these two values, or if window was already splitted, this option doesn't take effect — REPL is placed in a new tab or in the next layout group.

   > **Note**: if you want another splitting behavior or more flexibility, take a look at the [Origamy plugin](https://github.com/SublimeText/Origami/).

You can find these options and their default values in the menu:

	Sublime Text  ➤  Preferences  ➤  Package Settings  ➤  LoadFileToRepl  ➤  Open Settings

or in Command Palette:

	Preferences: LoadFileToRepl Settings



### Key Bindings:

There are two hotkeys predefined:

* `alt+enter` — runs `load_file_to_repl` command with default options:

```json
	{ "keys": ["super+enter"], 		 "command": "load_file_to_repl"},
```

* `alt+shift+enter` — same, but clears REPL before loading file and moves cursor to REPL:

```json
	{ "keys": ["super+shift+enter"], "command": "load_file_to_repl", 
	  "args": {
	  	"clear": true,
	  	"save_focus": false
	  }
	}
```

You can find these bindings at

	Sublime Text  ➤  Preferences  ➤  Package Settings  ➤  LoadFileToRepl  ➤  Default Key Bindings

> **Note**: if you don't like them and want to turn off or make your own just set the `use_load_file_to_repl_keybindings` setting to false and reload Sublime.


## Installation

Using [Sublime Package Control](http://wbond.net/sublime_packages/package_control):

> **Note**: you should install first [SublimeREPL](http://github.com/wuub/SublimeREPL) plugin.

	⌘⇧P  ➤  Package Control: Install package  ➤  LoadFileToRepl

Now restart Sublime Text to load the plugin settings. That's it!
